The Project Gutenberg eBook of Dream Tapestries, by Louise Morey
Bowman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Dream Tapestries

Author: Louise Morey Bowman

Release Date: March 14, 2023 [eBook #70284]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Krista Zaleski and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DREAM TAPESTRIES ***






Dream Tapestries




  Dream Tapestries

  by
  Louise Morey Bowman
  Author of “Moonlight and Common Day”

  “Reason has moons, but moons not hers
      Lie mirrored in her sea,
  Confounding her astronomers
      But, oh! delighting me.”

  (Ralph Hodgson)

    TORONTO: THE MACMILLAN COMPANY OF CANADA LIMITED, AT ST.
    MARTIN’S HOUSE MCMXXIV




  Copyright, Canada, 1924
  by The Macmillan Company of Canada Limited, Toronto

  Printed in Canada




  TO
  ARCHIBALD ABERCROMBY BOWMAN


I wish to acknowledge the courtesy of the editors of _Poetry_
(Chicago), _The Bookman_ (New York), _The Canadian Forum_, and _The
Canadian Magazine_, in permitting me to reprint “Cold Tragedy,” “Bread
and Fire,” “Moment Musical,” “Blue Moon,” and “Oranges.”




CONTENTS



                                      PAGE
  THE WINGÉD CLOAK                      11


  DREAM TAPESTRIES

  HYACINTH                              15

  ENCHANTED WOOD                        16

  GREEN APPLES                          19


  ORANGES

  ORANGES                               25


  THE MOUNTAIN THAT WATCHED

  THE MOUNTAIN THAT WATCHED             33

  THE OLD FRUIT GARDEN                  40


  SONGS OF WOMEN

  BLUE MOON                             45

  MISTRESS MARY                         46

  DAFFY-DOWN-DILLY                      47

  THE BIRTH-NIGHT                       48

  A PORTRAIT                            50

  THE SONG OF THE WILLOW WAND           52

  THE DEAD VIOLIN                       54

  A SKETCH                              57


  CINQUAINS

  CITY CHILD’S EASTER                    61

  DEEP SNOW                              62

  TWELVE HOKKU ON A CANADIAN THEME       64

  LIFE SEQUENCE (In the Hokku Manner)    66

  PRAYER IN SCARLET AND WHITE PAINT      67


  COLD TRAGEDY

  COLD TRAGEDY                           71


  HOMESPUN

  TWINS                                  75

  BOB COONING                            80

  SYMPATHY                               84

  FALSE DAWN                             85

  THE WITCH                              86

  THE POST BOX                           88

  SONG                                   89

  BREAD AND FIRE                         90

  “MOMENT MUSICAL”                       91




THE WINGÉD CLOAK


  _I draw my cloak about me ...
  Tattered and gray
  To others it may be.
  It seems to me
  Of golden hue,
  Broidered with mystic blue,
  Woven each dawn anew,
  And light as dew-ringed cobweb
  On the grass.
  Unscathed and joyously
  In it I pass
  Through drenching torrent, wind,
  Fierce pitiless sun,
  Till day is done._




Dream Tapestries




(1)

HYACINTH

  Hyacinth dreams in the arbour ...
  Just a crumpled mass of gray ...
  Soft ashen hair and colourless skin,
  Small, delicate hands blue-veined and thin ...
  Hyacinth dreams in the arbour
  And who shall say
  What Hyacinth dreams to-day?

  Hyacinth dreams in the arbour
  And the stealthy pussy-cat creeps
  To her silken lap in the soft green gloom.
  Room for the pussy-cat, Hyacinth ... room!
  Hyacinth dreams, in the arbour,
  Of Life ... that steals and leaps
  Like a panther out of the shadows ...
  Hyacinth sleeps.

  Hyacinth! Hyacinth! Open your eyes!
  Your blue blue eyes like the Grecian seas!
  Or Life will spring on your silken knees
  And waken you with a wild surprise
  Where you dream ... just a crumpled mass of gray.
  Hyacinth dreams in the arbour.
  Ah who shall say
  What Hyacinth dreams to-day?




(2)

ENCHANTED WOOD

  Through the great glowing forest,
  Green and dusky gold and ruddy brown,
  Where sunbeams filter down
  In showers of vibrant gold ...
  Through the old, old wood
  Passes the funeral pomp of the young, dead king.
  Choristers sing
  Strange, wailing, shuddering songs ...
  Old chants, so old,
  So desolate, drear.
  Heavy, deep, purple velvet drapes the bier ...
  Purple ... deep, passionate purple ...
  A regal pall
  Over the cold, young limbs, while the gold leaves fall
  On the velvet pall.
  On through the old wood moves
  The great procession;
  Deep, passionate purple draping the young, dead king;
  And the choristers sing ...
  And a small brown hare,
  Startled, in quivering panic, scurries ahead
  Leading the way for the king ...
  The king who is dead.

      In a bright green dell
      Where they can see well,
      Wait the butcher, the baker,
      The candlestick maker.
      “No more bread for he!”
      Says the baker.
      “No more meat for he!”
      Says the butcher.
      But the candlestick maker slaps his knee.
      “Not such a bad day this for me!
      No more meat and no more bread,
      But candles to burn at his feet and his head.
      Nor the living nor dead
      Can’t get on without me!
      And very very soon they’ll summon us three!”
      “For the Feast!” grins the butcher
      Wagging his head.
      “For the Feast!” says the baker,
      “They’ll soon need bread!”
      “Men can’t do without we!”
      They say, all three.
      So the butcher, the baker,
      The candlestick maker,
      Watch the procession from the small green dell
      Where they can all three see
      Exceedingly well.

  So the procession
  Passed through the wood to the blue sea shore,
  And they buried the king
  Where the blue waves sing ...
  And the young king rules no more.
  But late that night through the lonely wood
  Came a slim brown maid who had understood,
  And mated her soul with the young, dead king,
  With never a priest or mass or ring ...
  And she carried a dagger with poisoned tip,
  And pressed its point to her soft red lip ...
  And she lay on the grave, and died.

  Still at the turn of the year, men say,
  Through the old, old forest in ghostly pageant
  The funeral procession passes
  Of the young, young king
  Who is dead:
  And the gold leaves fall
  On his passionate purple pall,
  And the small brown hare still scurries ahead
  As if she were leading them all.




(3)

GREEN APPLES


  The garden lies spattered with wet green moonlight
  Spilled from the night’s dark goblet;
  And the wraith in the garden huddles mournfully
  Silently watching,
  Upon the broad marble seat,
  Where white lilies and roses bloom.
  Wine of pale silver-green drenches the garden.
  The little gray wraith huddles mournfully,
  Silently watching.

         *       *       *       *       *

  On that broad marble seat to-day
  Sat a beautiful lady ...
  Through the hot golden hours of the long afternoon ...
  Oh a beautiful lady!
  With a warm wicked beauty of white, and of rose,
  And of ebony.
  Over her white breasts a long green scarf falling ...
  Wet, bright, apple-green.
  Out in the orchard, laughing
  With clear, evil laughter ...
  Ice laughter ...
  She had gathered some little green apples
  And bit them with strong white teeth.
  “I am Eve! I am Eve in the garden ...
  Come! Adam!”
  And he followed ... poor, passionate lover ...
  To the seat by the heavy white lilies and roses.
  (Oh far far away lie the wise castle windows
  Behind the rose gardens and lime trees!)
  But after the lovers ... after them, swiftly, swiftly,
  Like a fleeting gray shadow,
  Speeds the little gray wraith ...
  With feeble weak fingers of dampness
  Pulling with tremulous touch at his heart-strings ...
  Pricking like impotent tiny thorns;
  Nipping, and pinching, and pricking
  The shrivelled, black conscience of the rosy and beautiful lady.
  See! from the shrivelled black conscience
  One drop of bright, red blood,
  As from prick of a rose thorn ...
  And his heart-strings are drawn tight and knotted
  With tiny, weak, slipping knots
  Tied by feeble, damp fingers ...
  Slipping ... slipping ... oh slipping!
  But what does that matter?
  For Time has come to the help of the gray wraith ...
  Grave, gray Father Time with a handful of moments--
  Dust? Ashes?...
  He has set the rose-shrouded sundial in shadow.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Now the broad marble seat is empty
  Except where gray wraith has sunk down in the moonlight
  Victorious.
  Ah! ... the lady had dropped her bright, apple-green scarf,
  And it stirs like a sinuous, long snake.
  Is it only that one pointed corner is lifted
  By the stealthy, stealing, night wind?
  Slowly, slowly ... so feebly ...
  The snake lifts itself with the wind’s help,
  Revealing
  A little green apple,
  With some black dents where strong white teeth
  Have bitten it.
  And the small, gray wraith noiselessly moans and shudders.
  But what matter?
  For the long night passes.
  Only the green scarf lies harmlessly, softly,
  On the empty marble seat where the little gray wraith sits
  And watches,
  Victorious ...
  Though the green wine of moonlight is drenching
  The perilous garden.




Oranges




ORANGES

  A small New England village in the hills: ...
  The date?
  Oh, many, many years ago ... the season very late ...
  November!
  The conquering colours that a year must always hold
  Have vanished.
  Pale Northern Spring in tints of lilac, softest green and rose;
  The short hot Summer’s purple and dark green and yellow gold;
  The tawny richness of the harvest’s close ...
  All past and vanquished in this sullen cold,
  By sombre grays and browns, dead white and black.
  The tall-spired meeting-house, the school,
  The stiff white houses built by rigid rule,
  Even the village store,
  With hospitable, easily-opened door;
  And their human owners reared in godly fear,
  Austere, repressed,
  Severe ...
  How it all lies, before our modern eyes,
  So grim.
  Dressed in that rigid livery of nature’s gloom that suits it best.
  Hear their stern hymn ...
  Dignified, slow,
  Sung in proud, solemn majesty of menace and woe.
  “Our days as grass ... all earth is but a tomb” ...
  What unfathomed gloom ...
  Smouldering!


(2)

  Keen bitter winds have stripped the great elm trees,
  And swept the one long street
  Ruthlessly neat;
  Quite bare of all the withered, dead, brown leaves,
  Except for small dry heaps that meet,
  Trembling and mournfully rustling,
  Caught
  In the corners of the neat, white, picket fences;
  Or drifting
  Behind the pillars in the porch of the white meeting-house,
  Unused through the long week
  Except for Death.
  How the winds shriek about the meeting-house!
  (But wait before you shudder and turn away!)
  With the keen, icy breath of the New England hills
  Sharp in your nostrils,
  Step over the threshold of the village store,
  With its easily-opened door.
  Breathe this different air,
  Heavy with curiously mingled odours
  As if another wind had blown in there
  Heaps of rare
  Drifted salvage ...
  Some wild, rich wind from wild rich worlds beyond,
  That folk cannot entirely withhold,
  Even from a Puritan village long ago.
  Beware ... ye righteous folk of old ...
  Beware!


(3)

  Here are great foreign boxes, wisely and deftly made,
  That hold teas from the Orient, compactly laid;
  And coffee beans.
  Here spices, pungent and hot;
  Tall, blue-wrapped cones of sugar; fine and coarse salt;
  And finest quality of figured delaine;
  Dark, serviceable calico dotted and plain;
  Sheer delicate muslin, white as milk,
  And thick black silk;
  And broadcloth heavy and black;
  And much, much more ...
  Of quantity and quality no lack--
  For this is the “general store,” of a prosperous man
  Old and wealthy and wise,
  In the village eyes.
  Oh, Puritan New England would be clothed fittingly;
  And Puritan palates know,
  Both high and low
  The wholesome savour of good food
  When in the mood;
  As well as very fine
  Flavours in sermons by some “great divine;”
  Or savour of ethics proved and tried,
  And flavours in doctrines never very wide ...
  But high and pure ...
  (That you’ll acknowledge!)
  God ... but they were sure ...
  Those grim fine people of ours! ... another hymn ...
  “Only such things as are godly and pure,
  Saved from consuming wrath they shall endure.”...
  Is that the echo of the bell
  From the tall-spired white meeting-house?
  Its bell is silent through the week, except for Death ...
  Hear the wind shriek about the meeting-house!
  But this small bell
  Fastened above the door
  Of the old village store,
  Tinkles continually, where through the week,
  They barter and buy and sell.


(4)

  (In this short passing hour we shall see more ...)
  He is a man of vision and breadth of mind ...
  This storekeeper.
  Back in the dusky depths of the old store
  Are rows of books in sober black and brown;
  Books for his town
  That are not all volumes of sermons or hymns,
  Or a “Garland of Sacred Poetry from Friend to Friend.”
  (Does not some stern voice ask “Where will this end?”)
  For here are books of perilous voyages, tales of human ways,
  And human lives, and of the great, historic, coloured days
  Of far-off empires ... Ah ... here are William Shakespeare’s
    mighty plays!
  (But we must not stop to read more titles now ... the hour is
    almost past)
  Daylight is fading fast ...
  And heaped on the dark, well-rubbed old counter lies his last
  And latest venture on seas of commerce ...
  Oranges!


(5)

  Oranges ... oranges ...
  Great balls of golden wonder ... round, perishable globes ...
  Here a ripe pyramid most carefully laid
  Beside sad-toned materials for matrons’ robes,
  And piles of iron-gray wool for their men’s winter stockings ...
  Plain comfortable sight ... proof against sharp frost bite
  Of the Northern Winters.
  See how the oranges have caught up all the light!
  What joyous tones they hold
  Of vivid, bold,
  Hot colour!
  They glow like balls moulded of molten gold.
  Above them from the rafters hang thin strings and strings,
  Innumerable strings
  Of dull, dried apples!
  Nothing is here akin to the oranges at all ...
  Nothing in all
  This colourless, inanimate hoard ... nothing’s akin
  Except that vague, enduring richness, so alluring,
  That we smell,
  When the small bell,
  Over the door tinkles ... and we come in ...
  Out of the keen, pure coldness of the wind.


(6)

  So ... the scene is set ... for good and ill.
  Over the highest hill
  New winds blow wild and shrill:
  For “the old order changeth” still.
  Who now is sure what shall endure?
  The street is empty ... in the dusky store,
  Holding the eye with a voluptuous lure,
  The oranges burn through the smouldering gloom.




The Mountain That Watched




THE MOUNTAIN THAT WATCHED


  “In the beginning” ... “The heavens and the earth” ...
  “Let there be light” ...
  After all we can’t improve on Genesis
  After all we can’t improve on Genesis
  For the condensed beginning of a tale!
  But earth is much more earth, and heaven much more heaven
  When it’s our own old Mountain, touching sky
  Like this, right up in the middle of the island,
  Than when it’s a mountain range across the oceans.
  That’s to my way of thinking anyhow.
  Mountain and city ... Edinburgh now ... but that’s another’s story ...
  Sonnet form!
  And now ... to mine, to-day.
  To-day! To-day is written in curling smoke
  Before the Mountain, dumb above the city ...
  Our Mountain ... trying to make us understand,
  By secret code, sign language ... what you will.

      _Rustling of leaves--
      Pale green, dark amber, scarlet, crimsoning brown--
      Deep coloured sighs and long deep breaths of earth--
      Rustling of leaves--_

  “In the beginning”--
  The river, the island, and the rustling leaves,
  Arrows and mating and life and birth and death,
  Silence and solitude;
  But always the Mountain, touching cold blue sky
  When the white men landed in their little boats,
  When holy dreaming men and women came,
  And built their funny little forts and towers,
  And sacred shrines,
  And made a new-world city.
  And all the while the Mountain watched and watched.

      Dirt? Well you certainly can’t expect a city’s docks,
      or a great station at an entrance port,
      to be like a Quaker meeting-house
      on a seventh-day noon.

  Docks! There’s a magical word! Not unpoetical
  let me tell you, if you’ll only close your eyes
  and use that “inward eye” your Wordsworth used
  for daffodils. My God! you’d think he had secured that “eye”
  to be hereafter used for “daffodils,” and “solitude” and “thrills,”
  exclusively!
  Come now! Just try it on for once to-day
  with river docks filled with the motley throng ...
  old world and new.
  Deep searching eyes that seek the “golden West”--
  wild eyes that hold the primal hunger lure,
  young eyes that hold the secrets of the dawn,
  sad eyes that hold the fury of the night--
  We’ll have to stand the dirty docks I think,
  and the crowded station--
  holding a daffodil to your nose to smell
  you’ll soon forget the nose and the daffodil!
  What’s that you’re murmuring?
  “It’s all like a magic casement opening out
  on perilous seas....” Bless you for those kind words!
  Though that’s John Keats that sees our docks--not you!
  Wait just a moment--here is something now
  that’s well worth watching! It’s the Jewish New Year,
  and those are orthodox Jews who have come down
  to cast their sins away in running water.
  Mumbling in their beards ... from books, and some from memory ...
  punctilious enough they are ...
  shaking their overcoats ... (those two men, look!)
  Into deep river ... old Father St. Lawrence running to the sea.
  Old men, believers--and a few young ones too.
  You see? Turn round and look at the motor cars.
  Look at that old old woman from the slums--
  Grandmother of Isaac and Jacob and Abraham--
  Look at her! Carefully shake, shake, shake, old Mother!
  Strong, wrinkled, kindly face--those toil-worn hands--
  Come, let us try the “inward eye” again....
  Verily--see! Her sins do drop and float away from her
  on the dirty oily water--little sins
  that float like tiny, bright-red maple leaves
  cast from a lusty old tree in the Fall.
  She’s known the life of the full ripe seasons through ...
  carefully and punctiliously shake, shake, shake!
  Let us go too from the docks with lightened hearts,
  groping our way on upward through the slums.
  Listen to the lilt and whimsical chattering
  of alien tongues.
  “And have not charity”--“Through a glass darkly” ... see?
  We’ve dropped our classic daffodils and trod
  upon them! But we’ve really seen--something.
  To-day.
  What else does the Mountain see?
  Churches! Hotels! Domes, palaces and towers,
  Steep hilly streets, shops, hovels, factories.
  Limestone tradition!
  Romance! Romance! Raw gold!
  Merry-men, jesters, in a surging crowd
  mingling with Holy Folk--
  Miracles, shrines, and glorious, honest doubts--
  raw gold, black, red,--
  new thoughts breed sacraments--
  white dreams and tawny sins--
  the half-good, the half-bad--Humanity!
  Groping humanity--
  Who judges? How? Or why?
  The Mountain watches.

  Snow-dusted silent streets. The midnight mass--
  with quiet thronging worshippers that pass
  from darkness into glimmering ecstasies.--
  Another mood ...
  The blizzard--
  The swirling wall-like drifts, while through the streets
  the snow-ploughs move like huge primeval beasts
  glutted with power;
  wallowing through the mists of drifting powdery particles,
  ploughing the snow.
  The Mountain watches and possesses now
  a festival afternoon of sparkling white,
  pierced by the thrilling flights of vivid glancing skis--
  pierced by the shooting downward in death-like dive,
  of flat toboggans on the mountain slide.
  Impertinence the Mountain tolerates!

  The flashing facets of an ice palace
  reared in a square beside a towering church of massive stone,
  for half a continent to gaze upon if it so desires,
  and feast between whiles.
  (“H-mmm--Good advertising this--
  Hush! Watch your step! Deliver the goods!”)
  Ah well--Mount Royal, graven on a “souvenir!”
  The Mountain watches.
  “Truly an ice palace is a beautiful thing--a fairy tale!”
  “You poets are so fantastic!” “You should worry!”
  “My word I’m nearly dead for tea!” “Do hurry!”
  “Ice plants for making artificial ice”--“Efficiency”--
  “Gold seal--good jazz”
  “The cafeterias are the thing to-day--
  take up your tray
  and walk!”
  “What blasphemy!”
  “Ice plants for making artificial ice”
  “Fine bargain furs there if you’ve got the price”
  “Gods! what a day!”
  Then much the same in French--the rapid glancing tongue.
  “Day uttereth speech” indeed.
  “Night sheweth knowledge.”
  The Mountain watches.
  Night! Zero night--
  like a dense black velvet skin
  drawn tightly over the city;
  and lights pricking, pricking, pricking--
  like fiery pin-points in a million eyes
  behind black skins, blazing with jungle light ...
  a gay old city is sinister at night.

      _Rustling and creaking of black naked branches
      On the old Mountain--
      Stark twisted branches black against the snow
      Snapping and crackling of frost-tortured trees--
      Rustling--_

  Something has happened! The Mountain almost seems to tremble.
  Down its sides rush the melting snows in torrents;
  tumbling, tumultuous, most untidy rivers
  through icy blackened parapets that still stand.
  Washing day for the Mountain!
  Ah but wait!--
  Silver-green city in a rosy mist--Spring dawn!--
  As Life has waked with a soft stirring
  Of pouting leafy lips
  And curling velvet finger-tips,
  Through all the ages while the Mountain watched.

      _Rustling of leaves--
      Silver-green, rose-red, amber, scarlet, brown--
      Deep coloured sighs and long deep breaths of earth--
      Rustling of leaves_--

  Against my hand a little crumbling dust
  Is softly blown--
  Before my eyes a glory--sunset? Dawn?
  And in my ears a great triumphant song--
  Is it a song?
  Or but the quiet breathing of a child
  Who holds its coloured toys and drifts to sleep?

  The Mountain watches and is very still.




THE OLD FRUIT GARDEN


MEMORY

  Through tortured weeks of hospital surgery
  The old fruit garden of my childhood days
  Grew close about me. Through black storms of pain
  Swayed joyous boughs of rosy apple-bloom;
  White blossomed branches of an old plum-tree;
  Old grape-vines clinging to a sunny wall;
  Great bushes of red currants and raspberries.
  Through hours of torturing thirst I found again
  That old fruit garden--as if body and soul
  Clutched at cool juicy fruits--remembering--
  Devouring them through a parched mouth of the brain.


GRAPES

  Grandfather was so courtly, wise and calm:
  At times a sweet old wordling, dealing balm
  Through business phrase or words of ancient psalm,
  Justice and whimsical kindliness to all.
  As he watched mankind, so in early Fall,
  He watched his grape-vines on the stable wall.
  In old Quebec the season is too brief
  To ripen grapes well ... sometimes scarlet leaf
  Becomes a herald swift beyond belief.
  The few big clusters with pale purple bloom
  So slowly deepening, often met their doom
  When rich October caught November’s gloom.
  He never lost his interest ... every Fall
  He saw his grape-vines as he’d dreamed them, all
  Weighed down with purple riches, growing tall
  Over the stable windows. On the way
  To the rose garden where he walked each day ...
  “These grapes are riper than last year” he’d say.
  In spite of all the travelling he’d done
  He sought no changes now and thought “no sun
  Could be much brighter than a Canadian one!”
  Yet I knew well his grapes brought visions fair
  Of mellow summer lands with temperate air.
  “Grapes are like men--can’t ripen everywhere....
  Men all need sun, and right loam I suppose;
  But if one strikes deep roots ... as a rule ... he grows!”
  He smiled his smile and cut a late white rose.


RED CURRANTS

  “Well! The red currants must be picked to-day.
  They’re ready for jelly” Grandmother would say.
  She never wasted words yet had her way.
  In cool gray cotton gown, and black straw hat
  Securely tied--She made a point of that
  Though no breeze stirred the lilacs where she sat
  To superintend old Jock and Marie Anne
  At tasks of picking. When her palm-leaf fan
  Waved slowly all was well; but my blood ran
  Quicker when it moved very fast ... one knew
  The hours were slipping past ... then old Jock too
  And Marie Anne, would pick with greater zest.
  “Granny! Red currant jelly’s _much_ the best!”
  “Black’s best for colds” she’d say, as she caressed
  With firm kind fingers my rough curly head.
  She rarely kissed me. Deep within was bred
  Acid reserve and purity ... those red
  Ripe currants, with their pleasant acid tang,
  Seemed to me just _like_ Grandmother! I sang
  My multiplication-tables till they rang
  Loud through the garden where dear Granny sat
  Smiling--well-pleased--with firmly-tied black hat!


AMBER RASPBERRIES

  Old Jock and Marie Anne could never find
  Raspberries of the glowing amber kind
  To fill the “ancient porcelain bowl.” (’Twas lined
  With amber glaze; outside a gold vine wound
  In such a graceful pattern round and round.)
  But if my Mother looked she always found
  Enough to fill the bowl. That day we’d three
  Distinguished guests. I loved to have them see
  My lovely Mother as she looked at tea....
  Her gown of creamy lace--her shining hair,
  Her beads of old carved amber ... all her rare
  Fragile soft richness, like the berries there
  With their pale amber bloom. I loved her so....
  I wished that every body there could know....
  “Why don’t you eat your berries, Child?” ... then low
  I bent my head to hide two burning tears
  Of yearning love. How strange those vague cold fears
  My child heart knew that day ... what long long years
  Since those last lovely hours of ecstasy
  When she made Beauty live and thrill for me.




Songs of Women




BLUE MOON


  Oh I was young an’ feared o’ pain
  When I went hot-lovering down the lane.
  I sipped sweet honey wi’ my red lips,
  An’ I touched fire wi’ my finger-tips,
  But I drew them back again--
  For the withered, gray woman so old and wise,
  Wi’ the queer, hushed voice an’ the listening eyes,
  An’ the stone-deaf ears, who lives i’ the lane--
  She stepped so soft an’ she says “Rose-Jane!
  You’re eating plum porridge (ye poor wee loon!)
  Eating it hot in a rare blue moon.
  You’ve a dimpled face like a rosy June,
  But your mouth’ll be burnt
  Before you’ve learnt
  The way of a man in the moon.
  And then they’ll call you ‘Old Rose-Jane
  Who went hot-lovering down the lane.’
  Beware of the rare blue moon, Rose-Jane!”

  Saints bless that woman wi’ listening eyes!
  I’ve planted the sweet-briar where she lies.
  She stopped my ears an’ she made me wise.
  I’m pure as the virgin saints are pure--
  Now never a man my pale lips lure.
  But once in a blue moon, I’m not sure
  That the withered gray woman, wi’ listening eyes,
  Didn’t cheat me out of a rare fine prize.

  Something calls to me i’ the moon,
  “Rose-Jane! Rose-Jane! Come! Come soon!”




MISTRESS MARY


  “O Mistress Mary--Mistress Mary--
  What have you found in your new old house?
  Paperers are waiting you, and carpenters, and gardeners--
  And you are up garret, just as still as a mouse!
  What makes your eyes so wet and so round?
  Mary--Mary! What have you found?”

  “Where the sour old wind grieves under the eaves
  There’s an old trunk hid--Oh the dust on the lid!
  I pulled out from it a gay round box,
  And in it were worn-out boots and socks--
  Little, soft socks and little, stout boots--
  And a child’s crude drawings of flowers and fruits,
  And a tiny toy whip, and a ship and a ball--
  Oh--they’re just like a little lost boy! That’s all!”




DAFFY-DOWN-DILLY


      ’Twas a green velvet gown
      That he wanted me to wear,
      With a yellow satin ribbon
      In my rough brown hair.

      But his flame burned down
      And then he turned cold;
      And he sent for the Parson,
      Who called me bold.

         *       *       *       *       *

  So I’ve come down with my velvet gown
  To earn my living in Evil-Town.
  But I think I was ever more mad than bad,
  And I’d very much rather be good and glad....

         *       *       *       *       *

  _Frowsy thing
  With a broken wing!
  Hark to the queer little songs she’ll sing!
  Drowsy thing!_




THE BIRTH-NIGHT


  The eerie fingers of the rain
  All day have stroked my window-pane,
  While all the day and all the night
  Elves have been grinding, keen and bright,
  Weird, tiny knives of nerves and wits.
  Upon my heart an Elf-king sits ...
  A cruel, Lilliputian mite ...
  And by my breath he flies a kite
  Of hope in life or hope in death.
  He tugs and scowls with all his might ...
  The kite depends on my frail breath.
  I watch the earthly colours bright,
  Painted upon that fluttering kite.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Little boys fly gay kites
  And play with marbles ...
  Little boys laugh and shout
  In the wind and the sunshine....

         *       *       *       *       *

  Little Boy ... oh little Boy ... were you ever an Elf-king?

         *       *       *       *       *

  The eerie fingers of the rain
  All day have stroked my window-pane.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Far off I hear a voice explain
  “She seems to listen to the rain ...
  She _has_ put up a plucky fight!
  A splendid boy! Oh _she’s_ all right!”

         *       *       *       *       *

  Elves! Elves! Stop your grinding!
  Rain! Rain! Stop your stroking!
  Bright little kite is gaily flying
  In the sky ... for I’m not dying ...
  I am alive!... alive!... alive!
  Heart and soul and senses five!

         *       *       *       *       *

  Now as soon as I can say anything
  I’ll make them show me that Elfin-king!




A PORTRAIT


  Frail, exquisite, indomitable face,
  Where pain has left its trace ...
  Where are the words to paint
  Her curious austere charm ... elusive, pure,
  As the frost etchings on the window-pane.
  Ivory, ebony, lace ...
  Yes I shall choose that clinging gown of black,
  Severely plain, but with such frills of lace
  Over the delicate wrists and blue-veined hands
  That for an instant one feels all restraint
  Quite useless! Ravishing, ecstatic frills
  Of lace, or lacy thrills!
  Choose either phrase!
  She’s no fanatical saint ...
  No, after all,
  No saint at all!
  Come help me, portrait painters rare and old ...
  Velasquez, Romney, Reynolds and Van Dyke ...
  Here’s what you’d like
  Poured in a modern, twentieth century mould.
  Ivory, ebony, lace ...
  Her face
  Brings suddenly before me grave and clear,
  Impression of an old-time cavalier,
  With feminine grace;
  Brave glancing sword and delicate ripples of lace.
  For she has conquered dragons of old pain
  With a deep-shining clarity of thought:
  Victorious though her frailty shows the strain.
  I trace
  With clumsy words the outlines of her face ...
  Brave, grave, and suddenly flashing, purely gay,
  Like the lace frills at play!
  And so you see as I began I end
  This portrait of my friend ...
  Ivory, ebony, lace ...
  Frail, exquisite, indomitable face!




THE SONG OF THE WILLOW WAND


  Sing hey the green willow
  That grows in my valley!
  Oh who would climb hill-tops
  To see what’s beyond!

        There came a gipsy vagabond
        A-strolling down my valley,
        With honey mouth for kissing
        And a gown of dusky red.
        “So this is how ye spend the days
        Wi’ never a wind to freshen ye--
        Climb up the hill wi’ me, my lad,
        An’ look--see what’s beyond!”
        She laughed wi’ me, and shared sweet bread,
        And waved a willow wand.
        By green moonlight we climbed the hill
        And reached the top at morn,
        And then she stood on tip-toe there
        And blew a silver horn.
        Oh at the other side the hill
        Her gipsy lord was waiting there ...
        I saw a joyous mating there
        That left me all forlorn.
        I watched her gown of dusky red
        Against the blue horizon ...
        Oh that was how I climbed the hill
        And saw the world beyond.
        I wonder why God let her come
        And share sweet bread a-laughing,
        And leave a-lying at my feet
        Her broken willow wand.

  Sing hey the green willow
  That grows in my valley!
  Oh who would climb hill-tops
  To see what’s beyond?




THE DEAD VIOLIN


  Icicles ... icicles hang from the eaves
  In glittering sheaves,
  Over attic windows,
  A cold wind heaves
  Great, shuddering, gusty sighs; it grieves
  For its waning power in the gay March sun,
  Whose melting work now is well begun ...
  Soft, slow,
  Drip, drip,
  Soft, slow,
  Drop, drop ...
  Great icicle tears ...
  Glistening, heavy, sun-drenched tears!
  Under my roof
  Remote, aloof,
  Lies this deer-hide trunk with its quaint, brass nails,
  Ancient, small ...
  How that old wind wails
  As I lift the lid to see
  What is here for me!
  Delightful find!
  All carefully, carefully lined
  With old old wall-paper, blue and gold!
  First I unfold
  An Indian shawl ... then a linen sheet ...
  Oh ... packets of letters, still faintly sweet ...
  “More letters to burn!” I groan, “Dear dear!
  But here ... look here!
  As I live an old, old violin,
  So frail and thin,
  And dusky dark in its shapely line;
  A shell out-worn; (hear that old wind whine!)
  With a cruel gash here at one side,
  And the tail-piece torn
  And dangling, tied by a piece of twine ...
  A dead violin in fine.

         *       *       *       *       *

  “We spend our years as a tale that is told”
  Violins packed in a poetry mould!
  Blue violins that, liquid, pour
  Vanished songs on a mystic shore ...
  Green violins that ecstatic trill
  Like bobolinks, till the year stands still
  In a lyrical meadow of green and gold ...
  (Violins packed in a poetry mould!)
  Red violins of a summer night
  Throbbing with passionate, blood-red song ...
  Dead violin! Ice-bound so long ...
  Soft!
  Soft ... drop softly icicle tears ...
  Icicle tears from the ice-bound years,
  Vibrating under my strong, new roof,
  Where the old violin, remote, aloof,
  Lies in my hands so terribly dead ...
  Never an echo of throbbing red ...
  Dead. Dead.

         *       *       *       *       *

  I want to bury it where it will rot
  In rich warm earth, in a noontide hot,
  Under the mightiest tree I know,
  And let it again through the tree-roots grow.
  I’ll fold it close in the soft, old sheet,
  Place the letters, still faintly sweet,
  Against the gash in its dark-hued side ...
  Its the violin--not Love--that died.




A SKETCH


  I hear him humming as he drives his car,
  In mellow baritone, an ancient psalm--
  Drifting down to his subtle modern brain
  From his old covenanting ancestors,
  Who strode bare-kneed through purple heather bloom,
  Praising their God on wind-swept Highland hills.
  I am his wife. Beside him vividly,
  I see now not the crowded city streets,
  Through which he presses, strong, aloof and calm,
  Factories and shipyards where his vast machines
  Whirr steadfastly, obedient to his brain--
  I see now just those small and golden hours
  When he is mine.




Cinquains




CITY CHILD’S EASTER


  Fragrance
  Of Hot Cross Buns:
  Pots of white lilies: sunshine: magic eggs:
  New skipping-ropes--but old old winds
  Of Faith.




DEEP SNOW


  Powder
  Of diamond
  Upon a silver birch;
  Old stone wall
  Buried deep.

  And you ...
  A scarlet bird
  Whose wild wings flutter here
  Against my soul. How still
  The world!




HOKKU

*“‘Hokku’ (seventeen-syllable poem) in Japanese mind might be compared
with a tiny star, I dare say, carrying the whole sky at its back. It is
like a slightly-open door, where you may steal into the realm of poesy.
It is simply a guiding lamp. Its value depends on how much it suggests.”

  (Yone Noguchi, from _The Pilgrimage_,
  published by Elkin Mathews, London, Eng.)




TWELVE HOKKU ON A CANADIAN THEME


(1)

  How strangely they float,
  Pale gold and ivory cups,
  On wilderness lakes.


(2)

  The loon’s weird laughter
  Holds Indian deviltry,
  Long, long forgotten.


(3)

  Indian cradle
  Swung from bough, rocked by Four Winds:
  Christ lay in manger.


(4)

  Silver-haired Marquise!
  You were transplanted, one Spring,
  Into wild New France.


(5)

  The sugar maples ...
  Benevolent goddesses
  Who offer honey.


(6)

  Snow-shoes: like strong wings
  Bound on the feet of victors
  Conquering snow-fields.


(7)

  On city pavements
  Two muffled, sombre nuns pace,
  Behind laughing girls.


(8)

  You set narcissus
  Amidst your silver birches
  By Northern lakeside.


(9)

  Five o’clock! You pause ...
  Handle frail, old cups, pour tea,
  And become grande dame.


(10)

  When Loneliness stalked ...
  Black panther through gold wheat-fields ...
  You used Love’s arrows.


(11)

  Puissant woman!...
  Sheltering tiny things like
  English primroses!


(12)

  Fast the new trails lead
  From wilderness to city!
  Years pass ... Canada!




LIFE SEQUENCE

(_In The Hokku Manner_)


  (Unready)

  Close-folded fern ...
  So stiff; so coldly self-sustained:
  But summer passes.

  (Motherhood)

  Puss watches the world,
  Troubled: but knows she is linked
  To a miracle.

  (Home)

  Empty room; fire dies;
  Moon shines in; chairs and tables converse;
  Books croon songs.

  (Awakening)

  Gray old tree
  Has breasted winter storms; but is vaguely
  Worried by March.

  (Memorial Tablet)

  Sunshine on storied bronze:
  Love on the whirling earth:
  And you on my heart.




PRAYER IN SCARLET AND WHITE PAINT


  There is a marvellous washing
  creamy and snowy-white
  hung high on lines
  stretched from upper and lower balconies
  in the back-yard, across the narrow lane
  behind my rusty apple-tree
  and dusty lilac hedge;
  and a great splendid ‘woman-by-the-day’
  comely and fat, with a bronzed skin
  and tumbled blue black hair,
  and an ugly and joyous scarlet gown,
  is hanging out the clothes ...
  wet heavy clean white clothes ...
  soft liquid splashes of light amidst dull dusty trees
  and sombre dirty bricks.
  The laden lines begin to ripple seductively
  in the cool sour east wind.
  There is no sun to-day,
  but the great splashes of high-hung white,
  the competent brown arms,
  the comfortable strength in vivid scarlet ...
  they have given me the warmth and wonder
  and the refreshment
  of tumbling woodland waters
  and blazing sun.
  I thank you ... Life!
  I daub it in on a bit of canvas
  (with a copy of a Botticelli madonna on the other side!)
  so I may remember ......
  the sordid back lane has become quite immaterial ...
  I thank you ... Life!




Cold Tragedy




COLD TRAGEDY


FLORENCE

  How this old terrace of mellow, creamy stone
  Grows warm in this noontide sun of Italy ...
  I sit alone
  And dream a piteous dream of ecstasy
  And suddenly wake!
  In that raw town by a Canadian lake
  Does she pause now ... to watch the falling snow?
  Before me stretch the olive trees that glow
  With their soft silvery radiance; far below
  The towers of Florence rise, like tall carved flowers.
  Ah I know well she does not count her hours
  That swiftly pass from dawn to candle-light ...
  She has the sun-filled day ...
  I but the night!


VENICE

  Dense violet sky of sparkling stars above,
  And all around
  The soft, mysterious stirring of dark velvet water
  That makes no sound.
  And here in the old Square
  Life ... surging, swaying, sparkling everywhere,
  As if it held at arms’ length waiting there
  The sky and water and their mysteries.
  But near me at a little table alone,
  A red-haired, black-eyed woman broods and waits,
  Gazing across the empty cups and plates.
  Her bright hair makes a glory in the light,
  But her dark eyes, unseeing, bring the night,
  Too near!


ROME

  So ... only the little things are left to me ...
  Cold comforts they!... Beauty my only home.
  Drifting of almond bloom ... gray ruins of Rome ...
  The Italian sun that makes these old stones warm ...
  Lilt of old poems ... sight of a girlish form ...
  Gay little laughter ... moon through the cypress trees ...
  I occupy myself quite well with these.




Homespun




TWINS

(_The old Housekeeper speaks_)


  I’ve seen a good deal in my life.
  My own story was over you see
  Pretty young--
  But I’ve danced an’ I’ve sung
  In my day with the best.
  I’ve been blest
  With the love of a fine brave man,
  An’ a babe at my breast.
  But now that’s all past,
  An’ I’ve got a good home that’ll last
  (An annuity too)
  Till old Mr. Drayton an’ I
  Get through!
  What d’ye say?
  Hmmm--
  It’s funny you like to hear me talk,
  An’ drop in like this on your afternoon walk.
  Now you want to know--don’t you?--
  Yes yes-- --
  This last queer thing that’s happened!
  I guess
  You’ll like it because you like cats!
  Well--last night
  With the fire burnin’ bright
  I was sittin’ an’ knittin’
  An’ watchin’ the kitten
  An’ the old mother cat.
  I sat
  Here; an’ there by the table a-readin’
  As usual--a-readin’ as if he was feedin’
  His stomach an’ soul,
  Sat old Mr. Drayton--as droll
  An’ dried up an old sinner
  As ever took dinner
  With his book by his plate,
  Readin’ early an’ late,
  With his shinin’ bald head an’ its mole.
  But he does love a kitten--
  An’ likes me here knittin’--
  Poor soul!
  Well all of a sudden the bell rang.
  I went just as spry as I could
  But I thought die I should
  When I opened the door
  An’ I saw standin’ there
  In the hall lamp’s red glare
  Another old Drayton--as like as two peas--
  The one at the table behind me a-readin’
  An’ here on the step number Two stood--a-kneadin’
  His long pointed chin
  With his skinny old hand.
  But he says very bland--
  A-stickin’ his eye glass up tight in his eye,
  With the black ribbon danglin’
  “My good woman--I
  Am your master’s twin brother.
  Mr. Drayton is in?”
  An’ all I could say like a booby was
  “Twin? Twin brother--twin brother--
  Oh Luddy! Twin? Twin!”
  Then _my_ Drayton spoke
  An’ I almost jumped out of my skin--
  With his dry old voice
  Just like an echo--
  “I’m in.
  Twin.”
  Then he says “Mrs. Beaton! Stay here!”
  I tell you I felt queer.
  There they sat by the fire
  With the table between,
  Just eyein’ each other--
  Twin brother--twin brother--
  Both babes of one mother.
  The old cat humped an’ spit on my knees
  An’ run off with a sneeze.
  Then said he--the new Drayton--
  “Well Richard she’s dead!
  Kittie’s dead--
  And the last words she said
  Were ‘Now Rob you make up with him Dear.’
  So Richard--I’m here.”
  But my Drayton sat quiet--
  Poor, shrivelled, dear soul
  With his mole.
  An’ I noticed the other was lackin’ the mole
  But otherwise--My! They are certainly twins!
  “Yes” said Drayton, “You’re in
  My house, Twin.
  So she thought Bitter Past
  Can be sweetened at last!
  Pretty thin!”
  An’ the light on his mole
  Seemed to shrivel his soul.
  You’d have heard it if I’d dropped a pin.
  Then they sat an’ they sat an’ they sat.
  I could see it was flat
  That somethin’ would _have_ to be done
  Or there’d nothin’ be won
  For either. I felt as if maybe we’d sit
  Till Eternity come
  Or till I had a fit!
  For with chins like theirs set--
  I was in a cold sweat
  I can tell you. I took up my knittin’
  To just die there--sittin’
  When sudden that kitten
  She just took a glance
  An’ made one funny prance
  Up that table at Drayton--
  The new one--She put up her paw
  An’ she patted his danglin’ black ribbon.
  Oh Law--an’ he had to hold tight
  To his eyeglass to fix it safe into his eye.
  Then if she didn’t try
  To get at it again
  An’ she sat up an’ blinked
  In his face for a minute--the man never winked.
  Then she played with her tail
  Right under his chin--
  Just a gray ball of fur
  With two eyes an’ a purr.
  An’ the light that was caught
  In his great signet ring,
  She saw that an’ patted it--cute little thing--
  An’ she licked all his hand with her little pink tongue,
  An’ then back to my Drayton
  As if she’d been stung!
  A-curlin’ right up on his shoulder an’ purrin’
  The only live thing in the room that was stirrin’.
  Oh I tell you that kitten was more than just--cat!
  Love was usin’ that kitten,
  I felt sure of that.
  Back an’ forth she went playin’
  Between those old twins
  An’ the room still so quiet you might have heard pins
  A-droppin’. I burst right out.
  “Luddy” I said “You two men! Why that kitten’s
  Possessed of the dead!
  If you could just see yourselves sittin’ up there
  Like two graven images--each on a chair--
  An’ that little kitten a-tryin’ to play
  With you both--I’m clean crazy!
  I _will_ go away!”
  I just shrieked it out an’ they both spoke at once--
  “Now now my good woman--
  Come don’t be a dunce!”
  An’ I said
  “Well I’m neither a dunce nor--a twin!
  But if there’s names goin’ why I’ll just begin
  An’ I’ll say you’re twin dunces!”
  Then sudden I saw
  Them both smile--at the kitten!
  It felt like a thaw
  After ice--up in Greenland.

  Oh yes--they’re both well.
  An’ the comfort they’re takin’
  I’ve no words to tell.




BOB COONING


  “Bob Cooning the giant’s come home to die”--
  So the village folk say
  To-day.
  They shake their heads and they peer and spy,
  And they draw in their breaths--
  “Dear--Dear!” they sigh;
  And they cook him dainties
  And wonder why
  The Lord ever made, under His kind sky,
  Bob Cooning!

      Bob Cooning the giant was only a boy,
      Like Harry or Tom or Jim or Dick,
      But one that the other boys couldn’t lick.
      Never a clean fair fight for Bob
      As boy to boy. “That’s a dirty trick--
      To hit a fellow just half your size!”
      I’ve seen the tears in Bob’s big blue eyes.
      “Give me a man to fight!” he’d say,
      And they’d jeer--“You’ll keep till another day!”
      Poor Bob would turn and slouch from the place
      And lie face down in tall “Queen Anne’s lace”
      And sob and sob to the cool brown earth,
      Far off from the sound of his playmates’ mirth--
      Poor Bob Cooning!

      And he could not learn to cipher or read,
      And he felt himself of a different breed.
      He ate so much, and his clothes cost more
      Than any one else, till his father swore.
      He slouched and stooped through the highest door.
      His poor little mother wailed and cried--
      But his wise old Granny only sighed
      “It’s the good God made him an’ He’ll provide.”
      How Bob Cooning cried when his Granny died!

      Then one night when the village was racked and thrilled
      With the circus tents, and the beast cries shrilled
      From the hot green meadow, Bob Cooning went
      With a sharp-faced man to a certain tent.
      Tom, Harry and Dick saw the last gay train
      Pull out, but they never saw Bob again
      Until, one day, through our old church door,
      At the morning service, strode Bob once more
      With his head thrown back, and a smile as bland
      As the great glass ring on his vast pink hand.
      How the people young and old did grin
      As the handsome giant came walking in
      With his sporty suit of a fine light check,
      And the great starched collar about his neck!
      How he dwarfed our poor little house of God!
      Dr. Smitters was preaching on Aaron’s rod,
      And how it budded in miracle bloom.
      “Say! With Bob in a church there ain’t hardly room
      For us and the minister both!” So Jim
      The wag, so dapper and keen and slim
      Whispered to Pollie--but Pollie just sighed.
      “Oh my, but Bob’s splendid!” Pollie replied.
      That winter Bob Cooning was just like a king!
      His father boasted “A darn fine thing
      For us, that our son went away that day!
      I tell you he’s made the show business pay.
      He’s heaps of cash an’ he says he’ll stay
      Here a while--but he may go any day.”
      When the glamour wore off the wise heads said
      “He’s stupid as ever, with wits like lead.”
      And more than one mother wished he’d go--
      “So handsome--he does turn the girls’ heads so!”
      And finally, all in the sweet green May,
      He went off again on a “Circus Day.”

      And when he came back for the second time--
      This _isn’t_ a story to put in rhyme--
      Now is it?--And yet if the Lord saw fit
      To make a giant and jest a bit
      Right out here in our country-side
      With every one seeing him far and wide--
      Well it seems to me that a rhyme goes fine
      For this pitiful, circus-like tale of mine--
      Of giant Bob and his coming home
      Never again with his shows to roam.
      “He’s fadin’ out like a wisp o’ hay”
      Said his poor little mother to me to-day.
      “He smiles at me an’ says ‘Ma--I’m small!
      An’ I always thought I was awful tall!’
      An’ he’s just as happy as he can be
      When he thinks he’s a wee boy--deary me!”
      And I said “Mrs. Cooning--now don’t you fret.
      I guess God will know how to handle him yet.”
      And she said “Well--he _has_ been a famous man
      In them shows!”--So--we all do the best we can.
      He’s a terrible problem to bathe and lift,
      But we’ve got it arranged, in a “double shift.”

          Bob Cooning, the giant, has come home to die.
          And the God that made him--
          He must know why!




SYMPATHY


  That ugly pumpkin-coloured house
  That I saw from the train--
  I have wondered about the minds of the people inside
  But I wonder in vain.
  Did they _choose_ that paint?
  Or perhaps it was brought them to buy--
  Oh I hope now they’ve got it all done that they like it--
  And don’t just have to try.
  Oh I hope that it shines there for them
  In their sunny green fields
  Like a lantern at night--
  And I hope that on dull rainy days they both say to each other
  “_Don’t_ it look nice and bright?”

  Oh I think I shall never forget them
  In their new-painted house!




FALSE DAWN


(1)

  My apple trees have blossomed in a night,
  And pale green moonlight bathes their rose and white
  With a strange wine that makes the pulses throb.
  A sleepy robin now mistakes the light,
  And his soft doubting note sounds like a sob
  Voicing the thought that draws my heart-strings tight.


(2)

  What Life could give you is not yours to take
  Nor mine to give--and yet to-night I wake
  Remembering your giving. But the note
  Of that moon-haunted robin must not shake
  My calm belief that you--austere, remote--
  Need nothing I can ever mar or make.




THE WITCH


  They--the good people--heard her song
  From out of the wood that grows thick in the valley.
  She had climbed to the hill-top that rises, blue,
  Out of the wood as one comes through.
  Grass on the hill-top waving long,
  And a smooth gray stone where she kept her tally
  Of the years and the days in the wild singing wood.
  She lived her life as a virgin should
  Till the people heard her song.
  They climbed the hill and they frowned and said
  “We liked your songs that we heard in the valley.
  We don’t like that one you are singing to-day!
  It’s mad and it’s bad and it’s much too gay!
  But we’ve brought you some meat and bread.”
  Then they saw on the stone her tally,
  And they shook their heads ... “Look here! Look here!
  Oh it’s very very plain she is queer ... mad queer!”
  And they took her away on that self-same day,
  Though she fought till she lay half-dead.
  Now all she had written on the smooth gray stone
  Were the strange magic things (O the deep blue wings!)
  That happen in a wild, singing wood.
  But they said “She hasn’t lived as a virgin should ...
  When she dies she shall lie on the hill for good.”
  And they laid her there, with her soft black hair
  Strained back from her dead white brow.
  “We will set at her head for a tombstone now
  This stone where she kept mad tally!”
  But she laughed as she sped from that hill-top bed
  And roamed through the wood and the valley ...
      “Oh wild blue wings I am free” (sang she)
      “Now I own the singing wood and the wood owns me,
      Oh the hill-top too and the valley!
      They gave back my stone and they’ve left me alone ...
      I am free! I am free! I am free!”




THE POST BOX


  There is something very wonderful
  In the posting of a letter--
  So few acts have the clarity of this.
  A clear-cut, forceful and far-reaching act
  Of pain or bliss,
  So it may be:
  Irrevocable in the subtlest way--
  To-day--
  You see?
  The post box flashes red
  A sign and seal of dominating law
  Through April green, or hard and glittering white
  Of winter snow.
  One may have vacillated day and night,
  Longing to end the turmoil, stress and strain,
  Questioning what is best or wise or right--
  And then post box gleams red!
  Cutting clean through the world of indecision
  Like a shout
  Of triumph!
  Then a soft flat thud--
  Like tiny echo floating out
  From a beyond of peace.

  The letter falls--
  Decisive act, prisoned in four red walls.




SONG


  Dew ...
  Delicate lanterns, star-kindled anew,
  And a sword of silver
  Brave, shining and still ...
  With roses--deep roses of crimson--
  And, sheathing the blade,
  Greek hyacinths blue.
  Ah ... the treasures, the symbols, we laid
  In the deep cold mould on the hill
  With the body of you!...
  But over the mould there flew
  Something wingéd that earth could not hold--
  You!...




BREAD AND FIRE


  Beloved Friend,

  I write this verse to you
  As if it were a letter I could send.
  It seems to me sometimes my heart slips through
  The purple barriers between us two,
  And finds again your fire, your sacred bread:
  Their warmth and wholesome sweetness ...
  Fire and Bread!

  Beloved, these symbols nourish Life anew ...
  You are not dead!




“MOMENT MUSICAL”


  Blue moth!...
  Tiny, pulsating thing ...
  You and I met upon a rocky hill.
  I paused ...
  You paused, and poised
  Blue,
  Blue on a dark stone:
  And all the vibrant sunshine in the world
  Was caught for the sparkle
  On your tiny wings ...
  Blue moth!

[Illustration:
WARWICK BROS. & RUTTER LIMITED TORONTO

PRINTERS & BOOKBINDERS]




Transcriber’s Notes

Obvious typographical errors have been silently corrected. Variations
in hyphenation and accents have been standardised but all other
spelling and punctuation remains unchanged.

Italics are represented thus _italic_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DREAM TAPESTRIES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
